# Median germination time

Compute the median germination time (\\t\_{50}\\). Median germination
time is the time to reach 50% of final/maximum germination.

## Usage

``` r
t50(germ.counts, intervals, partial = TRUE, method = c("coolbear", "farooq"))
```

## Arguments

- germ.counts:

  Germination counts at each time interval. Can be partial or cumulative
  as specified in the argument `partial`.

- intervals:

  The time intervals.

- partial:

  logical. If `TRUE`, `germ.counts` is considered as partial and if
  `FALSE`, it is considered as cumulative. Default is `TRUE`.

- method:

  The method for computing median germination time. Either `"coolbear"`
  or `"farooq"`.

## Value

The median germination time (\\t\_{50}\\) value in the same unit of time
as specified in the argument `intervals`.

## Details

With argument `method` specified as `"coolbear"`, median germination
time is computed according to the formula by Coolbear et al. (1984) as
follows.

\\t\_{50}=T\_{i}+
\frac{(\frac{N+1}{2}-N\_{i})(T\_{j}-T\_{i})}{N\_{j}-N\_{i}}\\

Where, \\t\_{50}\\ is the median germination time, \\N\\ is the final
number of germinated seeds, and \\N\_{i}\\ and \\N\_{j}\\ are the total
number of seeds germinated in adjacent counts at time \\T\_{i}\\ and
\\T\_{j}\\ respectively, when \\N\_{i} \< \frac{N + 1}{2} \< N\_{j}\\.

Similarly with argument `method` specified as `"farooq"`, median
germination time is computed according to the formula by by Farooq et
al. (2005) as follows.

\\t\_{50}=T\_{i}+
\frac{(\frac{N}{2}-N\_{i})(T\_{j}-T\_{i})}{N\_{j}-N\_{i}}\\

Where, \\t\_{50}\\ is the median germination time, \\N\\ is the final
number of germinated seeds, and \\N\_{i}\\ and \\N\_{j}\\ are the total
number of seeds germinated in adjacent counts at time \\T\_{i}\\ and
\\T\_{j}\\ respectively, when \\N\_{i} \< \frac{N}{2} \< N\_{j}\\.

## References

Coolbear P, Francis A, Grierson D (1984). “The effect of low temperature
pre-sowing treatment on the germination performance and membrane
integrity of artificially aged tomato seeds.” *Journal of Experimental
Botany*, **35**(11), 1609–1617.  
  
Farooq M, Basra SMA, Ahmad N, Hafeez K (2005). “Thermal hardening: A new
seed vigor enhancement tool in rice.” *Journal of Integrative Plant
Biology*, **47**(2), 187–193.

## See also

[`MeanGermRate`](https://aravind-j.github.io/germinationmetrics/reference/MeanGermRate.md)

## Examples

``` r
x <- c(0, 0, 0, 0, 4, 17, 10, 7, 1, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0)
y <- c(0, 0, 0, 0, 4, 21, 31, 38, 39, 39, 40, 40, 40, 40)
int <- 1:length(x)

# From partial germination counts
#----------------------------------------------------------------------------
t50(germ.counts = x, intervals = int, method = "coolbear")
#> [1] 5.970588
t50(germ.counts = x, intervals = int, method = "farooq")
#> [1] 5.941176

# From cumulative germination counts
#----------------------------------------------------------------------------
t50(germ.counts = y, intervals = int, partial = FALSE, method = "coolbear")
#> [1] 5.970588
t50(germ.counts = y, intervals = int, partial = FALSE, method = "farooq")
#> [1] 5.941176
```
